[MUSIC]
>> Jafar Husain: Now, you mentioned
earlier that you kinda thought that we
would be using switchlatest for
this, right?
Notice, I'm using concatAll,
instead of switchlatest.
Well, that's actually more appropriate.
I'm just aping what switchlatest does
here, right, because with takeUntil and
concatAll, I'm simulating
what switchlatest does.
Because every single time a new
observable comes along, right,
I've applied takeUntil to the event that
causes a new observable to come along.
So whenever a new observable comes along,
the old observable is gonna complete and
that's exactly what switchlatest does and
that's exactly why we can
simplify this to this.
So, that's effectively
what switchlatest does,
every single new observable is just take
until the next observable comes along.
So, let's simplify this, to this and
that is not bad in terms of code for
an auto complete box.
We've solved some pretty hard
problems with very little code
because we're thinking correctly about
what asynchronous programs really are.
We're thinking about them as streams
of data that arrive over time.
No different than an array.
So retry, let's talk about retry.
How many people you
know what promises are?
Some people a little bit.
One thing I will not be talking very much
in this particular class
about is promises.
So does that surprise some people?
Probably some people expected me to
cover promises in an asynchronous
JavaScript class.
The reason why I won't be covering
promises, is that they are not
very useful for the vast majority of
things that you do in a user interface.
That might seem odd.
They are in JavaScript,
they're actually be added to JavaScript 6.
That doesn't mean that they are the right
asynchronous object to use for
most of the problems that you
face in User Interface Design,
in fact I think they're not the right one,
and there's a very simple reason for that.
Promises cannot be cancelled.
So, promises are obviously not the right,
for
those of you who don't know what
a promises is, a promise is an object,
which eventually resolves
asynchronously to a value.
Now a promise can resolve either with
a value or it can reject with an error.
It's a little bit like an observable
that can only give you a single value.
So you can call a ven method,
which is sort of like for each.
And you can give it two callbacks,
instead of three callbacks.
You only give it two callbacks, because a
promise can only give you a single value.
So there's no need for
the uncompleted callback.
As soon as it gives you one
value you know you're done.
The reason why we don't use promises for
asynchronous network requests or for
animations for that matter, is because
you might need to cancel them, and
a promise cannot be cancelled.
So once you create a promise object,
it's either gonna resolve or
it's gonna reject, but there's no way of
telling it, hey stop what you're doing.
And that just doesn't make it very
appropriate for most UI actions.
Promises are useful for
some things, like async actions that
can't be cancelled effectively.
But almost none of those things
are what you do use when you use,
almost none of the async APIs you use when
building UIs, does not apply to, right,
if you open a form and then something goes
back you might want to cancel animations
you want to unhook event handlers and
so on and so forth.
Right, you wanna clean up after yourself.
With a promise,
there's just no way of doing that.
So, I don't think it's a very useful
asynchronous primitive on the client.
It's more useful on the server,
than it is on the client, but
it is from the masters and that's not why
I'm not going to showing you promises.
Observables are capable of doing
everything a promise is capable of
doing right?
Observable will get you one value,
it can push you 1000 values, right?
The only difference is you can do more.
And that's why I'm
teaching you observables.
It's more appropriate,
because it's able with this one type
to model not just async requests and
animations, but events as well.
And so you can take the average unit
of work that a user interface does.
And do it with a single type and it
turns out to actually much more elegant.
Okay.
So, one of the things,
because you can't cancel a promise and
a promise is always a hot data source, so
when you get a promise,
it's already going.
The network request is already going.
That's not true necessarily
as an observable.
Remember the getJSON
function we call here?
When we get that observable out,
you know what?
We haven't issued
a single network request.
Creating the observable,
doesn't issue the network request.
What we're talking about here,
is that example of the cold
observable I talked about before.
Nothing happens until you forEach over it.
So when you get that observable out,
it's not gonna
do a thing until you forEach over, which
the switchlatest operator will do right,
when it gets the inner
observable it forEaches over it.
So it's at, that's a distinction
between that and promises,
when you call a function that returns
a promise, the work is already happening.
Does that makes sense?
So, a promise,
there's no way to retry a promise,
a promise is a computation
that's going right now.
You can call the function again that gave
you the promise and you can get it again,
and that will retry the work, but
with a promise itself, by itself,
there's no way to retry an operation.
That's because a promise,
the work is already being done.
With an observable, because it's
forEach that triggers the action,
you can call forEach on one observable
three times, in this case the observable
comes out in getJSON and
triggers three network requests.
So if you call forEach on
this observable three times,
you'll get three network requests,
that might not be what you want, but
that's what this particular
function will do.
So, well you probably don't wanna
issue three network requests.
If you call forEach concurrently
three times, right.
You'd rather have an issue one.
And there's a way to do that, but
by default this observable will
actually issue three network requests.
But now what happens if you get
a network request and it fails?
Well you can just call
forEach all over again and
trigger another retry to
get that information.
So forEach's lazy nature,
which is another way of calling laziness.
An observable is lazy.
It doesn't necessarily do any work,
because it doesn't need to
until you call forEach on it.
Because it's like a tree falling in
the forest, with nobody around to hear it.
Why should observable do work to produce
values if nobody's listening yet?
Does that make sense?
So when you call forEach, that's when
the observable starts doing work.
And that's why we call it lazy.
So in this case, if you call
forEach on the getJSON observable,
it will trigger a network request.
And what retry does, is you give retry
an observable and it calls forEach, and
if it gets an On Air back,
if On Air gets called,
then it will increment a counter and
call forEach again.
Does that makes sense?
And it'll just keep calling foreach until
the counter gets to a certain level and
then if it still gets an error,
it'll forward the error along
to whoever's listening.
Does that makes sense?
And so Network requests
are a great example of something
we almost always want to retry.
Because intermittent network
failures happen all the time.
It's probably not a good idea
to issue a network request and
if it immediately errors just give up.
Because server's not perfect,
servers have problems.
If you're scaled out,
you might as well retry and
try and hit another server, so
for those and many other reasons.
Observable is a better way of modeling
asynchronous requests than promises,
because A, you can cancel them, B,
you can retry them and C, frankly, some
network requests might stream data, right?
They might stream multiple pieces of data
and then observables obviously a better
fit than that for promises which
can only send you a single value.
So we won't be talking very much
about promises in front of masters.
If you have questions about it,
we can talk about it, but my
recommendation is that you don't use them.
And for UI development, for
pervasive UI development,
I don't think they're the right level
of abstraction for most async problems.
I think observable is the right level
abstraction for most of the async problems
using the user interface, so
do we understand this slide?
We're gonna see the same
process happen again.
We're gonna start with an event.
We are gonna map it into
an asynchronous request.
Thus creating a two
dimensional observable.
And then we're gonna pick one of the three
flattening strategies to flatten it out,
based on what we want.
So those three steps,
we'll take the observables we have,
compose them into the observable we want,
those are three steps, right?
And once we decide what these are we want
is, and then will forEach over it and
we'll consume the data and
we'll do something with it.
And that's that last step.
I take the search result set and
I put it on screen.
I've done something with it.
Any questions?
>> Speaker 2: Directed to you Bill,
is retry injected to the prototype of
functions to work on any
functions we create?
>> Jafar Husain: Retry is not on a
function, so that's difficult to see here.
The fellow thinks that retry is on
a function, it's not, it's on observable,
getJSON returns an observable.
So, retry is on the observables prototype.
So, it's a method on observable.
Cuz getJSON returns an observable.
We're not calling retry on a function,
we're calling it on the result of
the function, which is an observable.
Right.
Because observables are lazy,
you can write retry over an observable.
Because it just keep calling forEeach and
restarting the action.
But if observable wasn't lazy, like
a promise, you can't call retrial on it.
Yeah.
Question in the back?
>> Speaker 2: If we use switchlatest,
why do we use the throttle,
is it through authorization?
>> Jafar Husain: No the throttle
is what turns abc, def, into cf.
That's to keep us from sending
many many network requests.
But I see the question he's asking.
That's actually a great question.
If we remove this throttle right here, we
would actually get the exact same result.
So this it's a very perceptive question
from the because he's looking at this and
saying like, well, why are you doing this?
Because, every single time we
get a new key press, we're just
gonna cancel the outgoing network request
anyway, which is, all we've done with
throttle is we've just eliminated a few
keys before we issue a network request.
So throttle is actually, purely,
a performance optimization in this case.
Because, we've dropped a and b, right?
Later on, let's say we didn't drop a and
b, and d and e.
And we just actually let
abcdef all the way through.
What we still would have just created
are a bunch of network requests and
then cancelled them.
And so by filtering out a and
b from a, b, c, d, e, f,
and d and e from a, b, c, d, e, f.
Which avoid creating network requests
that we're gonna turn around and
cancel them immediately anyways.
So it's actually cheaper because
we don't create the observable.
So that's a great question.
It's actually purely
a performance opposition.
Yes.
>> Speaker 3: So does it
cancel the request or
does it just not listen to the result?
>> Jafar Husain: Great question.
Well it's really all up to the observable,
right?
If she says,
look I don't want any more cake right?
I'm the producer,
I might be able to pick up the phone and
call the cake makers and say like,
stop the order, stop making cake.
I don't want any more.
Or, I could just leave
the phone on the hook and
when the cake comes just
throw in the garbage.
It's totally up to me.
Now most observables,
understandably, well written ones would
wanna do the former and not the latter.
And so in practice, yes,
that is what getJSON does.
It actually goes to the XHR and
calls abort.
>> Speaker 3: Okay.
>> Jafar Husain: So that may or
may not actually stop the network
request from going out.
But at the very minimum, it'll stop you
from getting called with the results.
>> Speaker 3: Okay.
>> Jafar Husain: Right?
But, very often in fact, you will be able
to stop the network request from going
out, especially in cases like this,
where you've got a lot of inputs coming
in because what is gonna happen is
the browser will build
a queue of outgoing requests.
So, it's not that you
issued a request already,
it's that it's actually
awaiting to issue a request.
>> Jafar Husain: Yep.
>> Speaker 2: Can you use
retry to pull a request?
>> Jafar Husain: To pull a request?
>> Speaker 2: To poll.
>> Jafar Husain: You
wouldn't use retry to poll.
Although retry is a lot like poll, because
you keep making a request again and
again and again, right?
But retry is specifically just for that
one behavior of making sequential requests
and only continuing as long
as you're getting errors.
Up until a certain point.
We will learn how to poll, though.
It is perfectly possible to do a poll,
by creating an observable,
that fires an item every hundred
milliseconds or something.
Like an interval, you said a set interval.
So you can do a set interval, which is
just you give the browser a callback and
it just fires that callback again
every hundred milliseconds.
Or whatever interval you define.
You can also create an observable.
Just on next to you every hundred
milliseconds, and then you can take that
and map that into a network request, and
now you've got a poll, right, now you've
got an input observable that's just
gonna fire every hundred milliseconds.
If you map each one of those items that it
delivers in on next, it might be just null
or true or something, into an observable
that makes a network request.
Now you've actually got a poll,
because every hundred milliseconds
you make another request.
Yeah?
>> Speaker 2: Question,
are you gonna engage
the internals of getJSON later?
>> Jafar Husain: Yes, but not right now.
For now it's just, you take it on
faith that under the hood it's using
XML HTTP request and it's gonna onNext you
the result and onComplete immediately.
Yeah?
>> Speaker 2: Then, one more question,
SwitchLatest Is switching between
multiple observables in this example,
is map returning multiple observables?
>> Jafar Husain: Well no,
map always takes an observable and
takes every item, well depends what
he means by multiple observables.
Map is just a very simple
mechanical function that takes
every item in the collection,
runs it through a function and
it's effectively substituting that item
for a new item into a new collection.
So like number 1, 2, 3,
if I apply a plus 1 function to 1, 2, and
3, I get 2, 3, 4 into a new collection.
Here in the case of map, the function is
actually returning another collection.
And so, we're going from a one dimensional
collection to a two dimensional collection
cuz the map functions returning yet
another collection.
So we go from 1, 2, 3 to one array
of 1 comma, array of 2 comma,
array of 3 effectively, so that's what
we're gonna find again and again,
we're gonna see the same pattern,
we're gonna take events.
We're gonna to map them into
a synchronous requests,
creating a two dimensional collection.
And then we're gonna pick
the right flattening pattern to
flatten them out again, and once we've
flattened our observable, then and
only then will we call forEach,
because calling forEach over
two dimensional observable
is not a lot of fun.
It's really weird, right?
It's hard.
Who wants to have to deal with this
inner and outer observable stuff?
You let the flattening operators
do that work for you, and
then you only have to worry about
a nice flat observable of results.
Does that make sense?
>> Speaker 2: Where are the multiple
observables coming from?
>> Jafar Husain: For
every key press right?
Let's look what happens for every key
press we've run it through map, and
getJSON returns an observable.
And so that means for every key press
object we create a new observable.
So that's where the multiple observables
are coming from, before we just had
a stream of key event objects and now
after the map operation, we have a stream
of observables, we have an observable of
observables, because the map function
is taking each one of those keypresses and
converting into another observable.
Yes?
>> Speaker 2: Is that inner
collection returned by map,
does that only have one element?
>> Jafar Husain: In this instance, yes,
it's observable of one because getJSON
just makes a network request, takes
whatever comes back from the network and
then on next it and
then immediately on complete.
So, yes it only contains one element.
So we're creating an observable
of observables of one.